Once, there was a king. A much loved King. But his subjects were unhappy, because the King was ill. One day, there was a knock at the castle gate. The guard looked out, saw nothing, was about to shut the gate, when he heard a cough. Looked down, and saw a you boy looked back up at him, and hand him a box: "a present, for the King."

The guard took the box, crossed the courtyard, up the steps to the Kings Chamber. Knocked. "A present for you sir..." The King turned over in his bed, went back to sleep. Later, when he woke, he saw the box. Opened it. Inside: a bowl. Old, tarnished, but well loved. The King touched the bowl: felt a warm feeling inside. And went back to sleep. When he woke again, to took the bowl out, felt a warm feeling, like honey, here `[hand on heart]`. At each touch, he felt a little better. One day, much better now, he saw writing inside the bowl, like the writing on the inside of an old LP (remember that?). "Give this to the one you love the most." That's nice, he thought. "And someone gave it to me." But then: "so I should pass it on to someone else too." No doubt in his mind at all: he would give it to his wife. She was overjoyed to see him looking so well, took the gift from as he literally skipped away. Felt a warm feeling, inside, here `[hand on heart]`, like honey.

As she wondered where to put the bowl — over there, perhaps, on the window sill, where it's light, she saw the writing....

Over the coming days, the bowl was passed from one to another. The Queen gave it to her sister, who'd always been there for her; she gave it to the Captain of the Guard, secretly — he was soooooo handsome.....— the Captain of the Guard, a widower, a tear in his eye, gave it to his young son, who made a game of it, handed it back to his father: I love you the most,... and I love you the most... back, and forward, then, bashful, passed it on to his sweetheart — the young scullery maid in the kitchen. Who had no-one. Except, maybe, one person, the only person in the castle who'd ever really spoken to her in a friendly way, a "thank you" — and he'd meant it — as she'd cleaned the fireplace, re-set the fire.

She crossed the courtyard, went up the back stairs - most people were never allowed in here, but if you had work to do, clearing the fire place, making the bed...

The King returned to his room that night, saw the bowl had returned...

I don't know who he gave it to next, but I do know it was passed on, within generations and across generations, in public ceremonies, and private conversations, until eventually it was passed to a Scottish traveller called Duncan Williamson, and he passed it to a storyteller called Nick Hennessey, and he passed it on to me, and I now pass it on to David, and to Sue, and to you, because through the stories we share with other, and the songs we sing, and the tunes we play, we share our hopes, and our fears, and our love, in whatever form that may take, with the ones we love the most.
